.Dd 28 February 2026
.Dt UPLOADCHUNKERD 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm uploadchunkerd
.Nd simple HTTP chunked file upload server
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a minimal HTTP server that accepts large file uploads in chunks
via multipart/form-data POST requests and concatenates them into
final files on the server.

The service is intended for environments where large files
(e.g. multi-gigabyte uploads) must be transferred reliably over HTTP
without requiring a single monolithic request.

Uploads are authenticated using a shared passphrase supplied
via environment variable.

The server provides the following endpoints:

.Bl -tag -width "/finalize-file"
.It Pa /
Serves a minimal HTML interface for browser-based uploads.
Only responds to GET.
.It Pa /get-uuid
Returns a freshly generated UUID as plain text.
.It Pa /upload-chunk
Accepts a multipart/form-data POST containing a file chunk and metadata.
Chunks are stored temporarily on disk.
.It Pa /finalize-file
Concatenates all uploaded chunks in ascending numeric order
into the final file and removes temporary chunk data.
.El

.Sh PROTOCOL
The intended upload sequence is:

.Bl -enum
.It
Generate an upload UUID.
.It
For each file:
.Bl -enum
.It
Generate a file UUID.
.It
Split the file into fixed-size chunks.
.It
POST each chunk to Pa /upload-chunk .
.It
POST metadata to Pa /finalize-file to concatenate chunks.
.El
.El

Chunks must be numbered consecutively starting at 0.
Concatenation stops at the first missing chunk.

.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width "UPLOADCHUNKER_PASSPHRASE"
.It Ev UPLOADCHUNKER_BINDPORT
TCP port to bind to.
Default: 9980.
.It Ev UPLOADCHUNKER_PASSPHRASE
Required shared secret for authenticating uploads.
The server exits if this variable is not set.
.El

.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "./uploads/"
.It Pa ./uploads/
Temporary chunk storage.
Directory structure:
.Pp
.Dl uploads/<upload_id>/<file_id>/chunk_<n>
.It Pa ./final/
Final concatenated output files.
Files are written as:
.Pp
.Dl final/<file_id>_<original_filename>
.El

.Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
Authentication is based solely on a shared passphrase transmitted
in multipart form fields. No TLS is provided by this program.
It is recommended to run
.Nm
behind a reverse proxy (e.g. nginx) with HTTPS enabled.

No filename sanitization beyond prefixing with the file UUID
is performed. Deployments should ensure that the
final storage directory is trusted and properly permissioned.

.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std

.Sh EXAMPLES
Run on default port:

.Dl UPLOADCHUNKER_PASSPHRASE=secret uploadchunkerd

Run on custom port:

.Dl UPLOADCHUNKER_BINDPORT=8080 UPLOADCHUNKER_PASSPHRASE=secret uploadchunkerd

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr http 7 ,
.Xr uuid 3

.Sh AUTHORS
wédiaklup <wediaklup@planteam.org>

Written in Go using the standard library and
the github.com/google/uuid package.
